## Security for Ruby on Rails

By design, Rails encourages practices that avoid common web application vulnerabilities. The Rails security team actively investigates and patches vulnerabilities. If you use the most current version of Rails, you will be protected from known vulnerabilities. See the [Ruby On Rails Security Guide](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/security.html) for an overview of potential issues and watch the [Ruby on Rails Security Mailing List](https://groups.google.com/forum/?fromgroups#!forum/rubyonrails-security) for announcements and discussion.

### Your Application's Secret Token

Rails uses a session store to provide persistence between page requests. The default session store uses cookies. To prevent decoding of cookie data and hijacking a session, Rails encrypts cookie data using a secret key. When you create a new Rails application using the rails new command, a unique secret key is generated.

The file `config/master.key` contains a secret token used to decrypt credentials (and other encrypted files).

Take care to hide the secret token you use in production. Don't expose it in a public GitHub repo, or people could change their session information, and potentially access your site without permission. It's best to set the secret token in a Unix shell variable.

If you need to create a new secret token, run `rails secret` from within a Rails application project root:

```bash
$ rails secret
```

The command `rails secret` generates a new random secret you can use. The command won't install the key; you have to copy the key from the console output to the appropriate file.
