## Asdf Version Manager

Most developers will need to install newer Ruby versions as they are released. And they will maintain applications that use older Ruby versions. A version manager makes it easy to switch between Ruby versions.

For a version manager, I recommend [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/). Asdf can manage versions of many languages, including Ruby and Node.

The asdf website provides [asdf installation instructions](https://asdf-vm.com/#/core-manage-asdf) but they were not accurate when I last checked. The website instructions say you should manually install dependencies with Homebrew (`coreutils`) but I've found that dependencies are automatically installed by the Homebrew asdf script (the Homebrew "formula").

### Install asdf

You can install asdf using Homebrew.

```bash
$ brew install asdf
```

After installing asdf with Homebrew, you can use `brew deps --tree --installed` to list the dependencies that were installed.

We must add asdf to the system environment before we can use it to manage Ruby versions. The post-installation message for asdf doesn't mention this, but the asdf website explains it is needed.

The post-installation message for asdf from Homebrew says, "zsh completions have been installed to: /opt/homebrew/share/zsh/site-functions" (on Apple Silicon). That just means that asdf commands can be auto-completed by pressing the tab key when you are using the terminal application.

### Add asdf to the .zshrc file

Use a shortcut to configure your shell to use asdf:

```bash
$ echo -e "\n. $(brew --prefix asdf)/asdf.sh" >> ~/.zshrc
```

This will add asdf to your  `$PATH` configuration.

Check the `.zshrc` file.

```bash
$ cat ~/.zshrc
```

You should see configuration commands for asdf on the last line:

```bash
. /usr/local/opt/asdf/asdf.sh
```

Configuration for asdf should always be the last line in the `.zshrc` file, after setting any `$PATH` configuration.

🚩 Close and reopen the Terminal window for the changes to the `.zshrc` file to be recognized.

After closing and reopening the Terminal window, use `asdf --version` to check that asdf was installed successfully.

```bash
$ asdf --version
v0.8.0
```

If the asdf command doesn't work, make sure you've added the asdf configuration to your `.zshrc `file and restarted the terminal application.

You can also check that asdf appears in your `$PATH` configuration.

 ```bash
 $ echo $PATH
 /Users/daniel/.asdf/shims:/opt/homebrew/opt/asdf/bin:/opt/homebrew/bin:/opt/homebrew/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin
```

### Add the .asdfrc configuration file

Add a `.asdfrc` configuration file to your user home directory to enable asdf to read `.ruby-version` files. This is helpful with any older projects that use a `.ruby-version` file to specify a Ruby version.

```bash
$ echo "legacy_version_file = yes" >> ~/.asdfrc
```

Confirm the creation of the configuration file.

```bash
$ cat ~/.asdfrc
legacy_version_file = yes
```

### Asdf `.tool-versions` file

When you work on a project, you can tell asdf which language versions you need by adding a `.tool-versions` file to your project folder. This is an alternative to configuration with the `.ruby-version` file that handles multiple languages.

```bash
ruby 3.0.0
nodejs 10.16.0
```

### More

The [Uninstall Ruby](/ruby/9.html) page explains how to remove asdf, if you decide not to use it.

Now you can install the newest Ruby version.
