## Uninstall Ruby on Mac

I've written a guide [Install Ruby on Mac](/ruby/index.html) that will help you select either Homebrew or a version manager to install Ruby. It is just as important to know **how to remove Ruby**.

Here are reasons you may need this article:
- You're not sure how Ruby was installed on your Mac.
- The Ruby version that runs is not the version you want (use `ruby -v` for version information).
- You've got the Homebrew package manager and it automatically updated Ruby to a newer version.
- You need a different Ruby version and you don't have a version manager installed.
- You want to use a different version manager (say, switching from RVM to asdf).
- You've installed Ruby previously for an application such as Jekyll and you need to begin development using a different Ruby version (for example, for Rails).
- Ruby isn't behaving as you expect and you want to install it from scratch.
- A Ruby application fails and you want to eliminate all dependencies (including any gems) and start from a clean install.
- You want to intentionally break Ruby applications that may not be using the Ruby version you wish to support.
- You've got Ruby versions you no longer need and you want to free storage space.

Take note that though you can remove any Ruby version installed by Homebrew or a version manager, experienced developers don't remove the _system Ruby_ which comes pre-installed on macOS. Instead, you'll set your shell configuration to override or pre-empt the system Ruby after installing Homebrew or a version manager. Instructions in the guide [Install Ruby on Mac](/ruby/index.html) will show you how to install Homebrew or a version manager and set your shell configuration.

### Steps

This is a guide to remove Ruby on a Mac.
- Use `which -a ruby` to see how Ruby was installed.
- Don't remove the system Ruby!
- Uninstall Ruby (detailed instructions in this guide).
- Update the shell configuration `~/.zshrc` file (if necessary).

### How was Ruby Installed?

Check how Ruby was installed.

The command `which -a ruby` will show you where Ruby is installed.

```bash
$ which -a ruby
```

The installation location will show you how Ruby was installed. Results will also show if more than one Ruby executable is installed.

Here is a list of possible results.

#### The system Ruby

```bash
$ which -a ruby
/usr/bin/ruby
```

 If you see `/usr/bin/ruby`, it is the system Ruby which comes pre-installed on macOS to support scripting. See the article [Do Not Use the MacOS System Ruby](/faq/do-not-use-mac-system-ruby/index.html) for an explanation (the system Ruby is there for macOS, not you). Don't try to remove the system Ruby. Leave it in place and use Homebrew or a version manager to install a newer Ruby version. See [Install Ruby on Mac](/ruby/index.html) for recommendations of version managers. Installation of Homebrew or a version manager will require setting your shell configuration to override or pre-empt the system Ruby.

#### Homebrew

```bash
$ which -a ruby
/usr/local/bin/ruby
```

or

```bash
$ which -a ruby
/opt/homebrew/bin/ruby
```

If Ruby was installed by *Homebrew*, you'll see `/usr/local/bin/ruby` (on Intel silicon) or  `/opt/homebrew/bin/ruby` (on Apple silicon).

#### RVM

```bash
$ which -a ruby
~/.rvm/rubies/
```

If Ruby was installed with *rvm*, it will be in `~/.rvm/rubies/` by default. You won't see the tilde character; instead you'll see your user home directory.

#### rbenv

```bash
$ which -a ruby
~/.rbenv/versions/
```

If Ruby was installed with *rbenv* (with the _ruby-build_ utility), it will be in `~/.rbenv/versions/` by default.

#### chruby

```bash
$ which -a ruby
~/rubies/
```

If Ruby was installed with *chruby* (with the _ruby-install_ utility), it will be in `~/rubies/` by default.

#### frum

```bash
$ which -a ruby
/var/folders/...
```

If Ruby was installed with *frum*, it will be in `/var/folders/...` by default.

#### asdf

```bash
$ which -a ruby
~/.asdf/shims/ruby
```

If Ruby was installed with *asdf*, you will see the `~/.asdf/shims/ruby` directory.

Ruby versions are installed by default in `~/.asdf/installs/ruby`.

### Uninstall Ruby with Homebrew

*Homebrew* is a package manager, not a version manager. It only installs one version of Ruby. You cannot switch among Ruby versions with Homebrew ([install a version manager](/ruby/index.html) if you need to switch among Ruby versions).

#### Before removing Ruby, run diagnostics

Run a diagnostic to list all the packages you've installed with Homebrew. You should see Ruby and its dependencies.

```bash
$ brew list
==> Formulae
libyaml		openssl@1.1	readline	ruby
```

You can also display a list of packages with their dependencies.

```bash
$ brew deps --tree --installed
libyaml

openssl@1.1

readline

ruby
├── libyaml
├── openssl@1.1
└── readline
```

Finally, you can see a list of Ruby files installed with Homebrew. This example is from Homebrew on Apple silicon, where Homebrew files are installed in `/opt/homebrew.`

```bash
$ brew list ruby
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/bundle
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/bundler
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/erb
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/gem
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/irb
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/racc
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/rake
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/rbs
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/rdoc
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/ri
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/ruby
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/bin/typeprof
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/include/ruby-3.0.0/ (182 files)
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/lib/libruby.3.0.dylib
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/lib/pkgconfig/ruby-3.0.pc
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/lib/ruby/ (4201 files)
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/lib/libruby.dylib
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/libexec/gembin/ (2 files)
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/share/emacs/site-lisp/ruby/ruby-style.el
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/share/man/ (4 files)
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby/3.0.1/share/ri/ (11946 files)
```

#### Remove Ruby and dependencies from Homebrew

You can uninstall Ruby from Homebrew with `brew uninstall --force ruby`:

```bash
$ brew uninstall --force ruby
```

The `brew autoremove` command will remove unused dependencies.

```bash
$ brew autoremove
```

#### After removing Ruby, run diagnostics

Run Homebrew diagnostics to confirm you've uninstalled Ruby from Homebrew.

```bash
$ brew list
==> Formulae
$ brew deps --tree --installed
$ brew list ruby
Error: No such keg: /opt/homebrew/Cellar/ruby
```

#### Remove artifacts

You should also remove the shell configuration that gives the Ruby version installed by Homebrew priority over the system Ruby. Open the  `~/.zshrc` file with a text editor and remove the lines shown below.

On Mac Intel:

```bash
if [ -d "/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin" ]; then
  export PATH=/usr/local/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH
  export PATH=`gem environment gemdir`/bin:$PATH
fi
```

On Apple silicon:

```bash
if [ -d "/opt/homebrew/opt/ruby/bin" ]; then
  export PATH=/opt/homebrew/opt/ruby/bin:$PATH
  export PATH=`gem environment gemdir`/bin:$PATH
fi
```

If you need to reinstall Ruby with Homebrew, see [Install Ruby with Homebrew](/ruby/13.html). For a guide that compares version managers for Ruby, see [Install Ruby on a Mac](/ruby/index.html).

### Uninstall Ruby on Mac with RVM

There are two ways to remove rubies from *RVM*:

* `rvm remove` removes Ruby and cleans up most of the install
* `rvm uninstall` removes only Ruby (leaves anything else)

`rvm uninstall` just removes the folder under `~/.rvm/rubies`. In most cases, you should use `rvm remove`. For example:

```bash
$ rvm list rubies
ruby-3.0.0
$ rvm remove ruby-3.0.0
```

See [Removing Rubies with RVM](https://rvm.io/rubies/removing).

If you want to reinstall Ruby, see [Install Ruby on Mac](/ruby/index.html) for recommendations of newer version managers.

### Uninstall Ruby on Mac with rbenv

For *rbenv*, use `rbenv versions` to see which versions you have installed.

Use the uninstall command to remove a version.

```bash
$ rbenv versions
3.0.0
$ rbenv uninstall 3.0.0
```

This will remove any gems associated with the version as well.

If you want to reinstall Ruby, see [Install Ruby on Mac](/ruby/index.html) for recommendations of newer version managers.

### Uninstall Ruby on Mac with Chruby

*Chruby* installs versions of Ruby in the `~/.rubies/` folder, so version 3.0.0 is in the `~/.rubies/ruby-3.0.0` folder. Gems for the version are in the `~/.gem/ruby/3.0.0/gems` folder.

If you wish to remove a Ruby version, you can run:

```bash
$ rm -rf ~/.rubies/ruby-3.0.0
$ rm -rf ~/.gem/ruby/ruby-3.0.0
```

If you want to reinstall Ruby with chruby, see [Install Ruby with Chruby](/ruby/12.html).

### Uninstall Ruby on Mac with frum

For *frum*, use `frum versions` to see which versions you have installed.

Use the uninstall command to remove a version.

```bash
$ frum versions
3.0.0
$ frum uninstall 3.0.0
```

This will remove any gems associated with the version as well.

If you want to reinstall Ruby with frum, see [Install Ruby with Frum](/ruby/14.html).

### Uninstall Ruby on Mac with asdf

If you have installed Ruby using *asdf*, first list all installed versions.

```bash
$ asdf list ruby
3.0.0
```

Then uninstall any version.

```bash
$ asdf uninstall ruby 3.0.0
```

If you want to reinstall Ruby with asdf, see [Install Ruby with Asdf](/ruby/6.html).

Here's a guide if you need to [Uninstall Asdf](/faq/uninstall-asdf/index.html).

