## Install the Full Xcode Package

Apple provides a complete development environment for programmers named Xcode. It is not pre-installed; it must be downloaded. The full Xcode application is huge, requiring over 40GB of disk space, and supports development for all Apple operating systems.

Apple also provides a separate and much smaller download, the Xcode Command Line Tools, that installs utilities for software developers who are not developing for Apple devices. If you are not developing for Apple devices, I suggest to [Install Xcode Command Line Tools with Homebrew](/commandlinetools/3.html) (recommended) or [Install Xcode Command Line Tools Directly](/commandlinetools/4.html) (an alternative).

If you are developing software for macOS, iOS, tvOS, and watchOS, you should install the full Xcode application.

### Steps

Here are steps to install the full Xcode application.
- Open the App Store on your Mac and search for Xcode.
- Download Xcode from the App Store.
- After your download is complete, launch Xcode.
- Enter your administrator account credentials.

### Verify installation

The full Xcode application will be installed in `/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer`.

You can check the location with the command `xcode-select -p`.

```bash
$ xcode-select -p
/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer
```

### Uninstall the Xcode application

If you've decided you no longer need the full Xcode application, you can uninstall it.

Find the Xcode application in the Applications folder and drag it to the Trash.

#### Remove Xcode residual files

Xcode leaves leftover files in two locations:
- `~/Library/Developer/`
- `~/Library/Caches/`








