## Uninstall Xcode Command Line Tools

Xcode Command Line Tools are tools for software developers that run on the command line, in the Terminal application. See [What are Xcode Command Line Tools?](/commandlinetools/index.html)

You may wish to uninstall Xcode Command Line Tools for a variety of reasons:
- you've checked the Xcode Command Line Tools version and it is not current;
- you are using Homebrew and encountered errors with `brew doctor`;
- a macOS upgrade may have partially removed Command Line Tools;
- you're no longer developing software and you want to free disk space.

The simple and effective way to uninstall Xcode Command Line Tools is to delete its folder.

## Find the Xcode Command Line Tools folder

Use the `xcode-select -p` command to reveal the location of the Xcode Command Line Tools folder.

```bash
$ xcode-select -p
```

You should see:

```bash
/Library/Developer/CommandLineTools
```

If you see `/Applications/Xcode.app/Contents/Developer` you have the full Apple Xcode package installed.

## Remove the Xcode Command Line Tools folder

The simple and effective way to uninstall Xcode Command Line Tools is to delete its folder.

Remove the Xcode Command Line Tools folder:

```bash
$ sudo rm -rf /Library/Developer/CommandLineTools
```

Use `sudo` for admin privileges. You must enter the password you use to log in to your computer (you will not see the password after entering it).

## Verify the uninstall

After uninstalling Xcode Command Line Tools, use the `xcode-select -p` command to verify that Xcode Command Line Tools is not available.

```bash
$ xcode-select -p
xcode-select: error: unable to get active developer directory...
```

You can also check that the folder is gone.

```bash
$ ls -ag  /Library/Developer
total 0
drwxr-xr-x   2 wheel    64 Jul 17 19:48 .
drwxr-xr-x  65 wheel  2080 Jun 28 12:36 ..
```

If you installed the full Xcode application, there may be cache or receipt files, but you won't have these if you installed only Xcode Command Line Tools.

That's it! You've removed Xcode Command Line Tools.

## Next

See the section, [Reinstall Xcode Command Line Tools](/commandlinetools/7.html), if you want to restore Xcode Command Line Tools after uninstalling.
