## Install Asdf Version Manager

Most developers will need to install newer Ruby versions as they are released. And they will maintain applications that use older Ruby versions. A version manager makes it easy to switch between Ruby versions.

For a version manager, I recommend [asdf](https://asdf-vm.com/). Asdf can manage versions of many languages, including Ruby and Node (especially helpful to Ruby on Rails developers).

Here are instructions for installing asdf. You can also check the [asdf installation instructions](https://asdf-vm.com/#/core-manage-asdf) on the asdf website. Older instructions say you should manually install the coreutils dependencies with Homebrew but I've found that all dependencies are automatically installed by the Homebrew asdf script (the Homebrew "formula").

### Install asdf

You can install asdf using Homebrew.

```bash
$ brew install asdf
```

After installing asdf with Homebrew, you can view the installed dependencies with `brew deps --tree --installed`. Asdf installs ten dependencies.

We must add asdf to the shell environment before we can use it to manage Ruby versions. The Homebrew post-installation message for asdf doesn't mention this, but the asdf website explains it is needed. The post-installation message for asdf from Homebrew just says, "zsh completions have been installed to: /opt/homebrew/share/zsh/site-functions" (on Apple Silicon), meaning that asdf commands can be auto-completed by pressing the tab key when you are using the terminal application.

### Add asdf to the .zshrc file

Use a shortcut to configure your shell to use asdf:

```bash
$ echo -e "\n. $(brew --prefix asdf)/asdf.sh" >> ~/.zshrc
```

This will add asdf to your  `$PATH` configuration.

Check the `~/.zshrc` file.

```bash
$ cat ~/.zshrc
```

You should see configuration commands for asdf on the last line. For Mac Intel:

```bash
. /usr/local/opt/asdf/asdf.sh
```

On Apple Silicon:

```bash
. /opt/homebrew/opt/asdf/asdf.sh
```

Configuration for asdf should always be the last line in the `~/.zshrc` file, after setting any `$PATH` configuration.

🚩 Close and reopen the Terminal window for the changes to the `~/.zshrc` file to be recognized.

After closing and reopening the Terminal window, use `asdf --version` to check that asdf was installed successfully.

```bash
$ asdf --version
v0.8.0
```

If the asdf command doesn't work, make sure you've added the asdf configuration to your `.zshrc `file and restarted the terminal application.

You can also check that asdf appears in your `$PATH` configuration (this is the Apple Silicon version where Homebrew installs packages in `/opt/homebrew/`):

 ```bash
 $ echo $PATH
 /Users/daniel/.asdf/shims:/opt/homebrew/opt/asdf/bin:/opt/homebrew/bin:/opt/homebrew/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/bin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/sbin
```

### Add the .asdfrc configuration file

If you are working on any older projects that use a `.ruby-version` file to specify a Ruby version, add a `.asdfrc` configuration file to your user home directory to enable asdf to read `.ruby-version` files.

```bash
$ echo "legacy_version_file = yes" >> ~/.asdfrc
```

Confirm the creation of the configuration file.

```bash
$ cat ~/.asdfrc
legacy_version_file = yes
```

### Asdf `.tool-versions` file

When you work on a project, you can tell asdf which language versions you need by adding a `.tool-versions` file to your project folder. This is a multi-language alternative to configuration with the `.ruby-version` file.

```bash
ruby 3.0.0
nodejs 10.16.0
```

### More

The [Uninstall Asdf](https://mac.install.guide/faq/uninstall-asdf/index.html) page explains how to remove asdf, if you decide not to use it.

Next you can install Node and Yarn before installing Ruby.
