## Uninstall Homebrew

Here's how to completely remove Homebrew on a Mac.

You may need to uninstall Homebrew if:
- Homebrew isn't behaving as you expect and you want to install it from scratch.
- You are no longer using Homebrew and you want to free storage space.
- You want to use a different package manager (for example, [MacPorts](https://www.macports.org/), [Fink](https://www.finkproject.org/), or [pkgin](https://pkgin.net/)).

### Steps

Here are the steps to remove Homebrew from a Mac.
- Uninstall Homebrew using the official uninstall script.
- Verify files are removed.
- Remove the Homebrew shell configuration (Apple silicon only).

### Running the uninstall script

Homebrew provides an official uninstall script that can be run remotely. Check the [Homebrew GitHub repository](https://github.com/homebrew/install#uninstall-homebrew) to see if it has changed.

```bash
$ /bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/uninstall.sh)"
```

It's easy to run the command directly in your terminal. Just copy and paste the command you see above (don't type the `$` as it is just a cue to enter a command in the terminal). Curl will copy the script from GitHub and run it in the macOS bash shell environment.

You'll see a list of files that the uninstall process will remove.

```bash
Warning: This script will remove:
~/Library/Caches/Homebrew/
~/Library/Logs/Homebrew/
/opt/homebrew/.dockerignore
/opt/homebrew/.editorconfig
/opt/homebrew/.git/
/opt/homebrew/.github/
/opt/homebrew/.gitignore
/opt/homebrew/.vale.ini
/opt/homebrew/.vscode/
/opt/homebrew/CHANGELOG.md
/opt/homebrew/CONTRIBUTING.md
/opt/homebrew/Caskroom/
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/
/opt/homebrew/Dockerfile
/opt/homebrew/LICENSE.txt
/opt/homebrew/Library//
/opt/homebrew/README.md
/opt/homebrew/bin/brew
/opt/homebrew/completions/
/opt/homebrew/docs/
/opt/homebrew/manpages/
Are you sure you want to uninstall Homebrew? This will remove your installed packages! [y/N] y
==> Removing Homebrew installation...
==> Removing empty directories...
Password:
```

You'll need to enter `y` at the prompt. Then enter your passowrd (the password you use to log in to your macOS account).

Finally you'll see a completion message along with a list of files you may need to remove yourself.

```bash
==> Homebrew uninstalled!
The following possible Homebrew files were not deleted:
/opt/homebrew/Frameworks/
/opt/homebrew/SECURITY.md
/opt/homebrew/bin/
/opt/homebrew/etc/
/opt/homebrew/include/
/opt/homebrew/lib/
/opt/homebrew/opt/
/opt/homebrew/sbin/
/opt/homebrew/share/
/opt/homebrew/var/
You may wish to remove them yourself.
```

Continue below to remove the Homebrew shell configuration and delete Homebrew residual files.

### Alternative: downloading and running uninstall script

Some developers don't like to run scripts without first downloading and reviewing the script. If that's you, you can download the uninstall script with the `curl -O` option to save to disk using a default file name.

```bash
$ curl -O https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/uninstall.sh
```

Then run `/bin/bash uninstall.sh --help` to view uninstall options. You'll see this:

```bash
$ /bin/bash uninstall.sh --help
Homebrew Uninstaller
Usage: uninstall.sh [options]
    -p, --path=PATH  Sets Homebrew prefix. Defaults to /usr/local.
        --skip-cache-and-logs Skips removal of HOMEBREW_CACHE and HOMEBREW_LOGS.
    -f, --force      Uninstall without prompting.
    -q, --quiet      Suppress all output.
    -n, --dry-run    Simulate uninstall but don't remove anything.
    -h, --help       Display this message.
```

The uninstall script removes all Homebrew files, including installed packages in the `/opt/homebrew/` (Apple silicon) or `/usr/local/` (Mac Intel) directories. It doesn't remove the shell configuration required to run Homebrew.

### Remove Homebrew shell configuration

On Apple silicon, the Homebrew shell configuration sets the `$PATH` variable so Homebrew packages in the `/opt/homebrew/`  directory will be found and given priority in the terminal. No shell configuration is needed on Mac Intel because the `/usr/local/` directory is included in the default `$PATH` variable.

By default, the `~/.zprofile` file will contain configuration commands. Use the `cat` command to display the contents of the file.

```bash
$ cat ~/.zprofile
eval "$(/opt/homebrew/bin/brew shellenv)"
```

Remove the line that contains `brew shellenv`. If you haven't installed a favorite text editor, use `open ~/.zprofile` to open TextEdit so you can edit the file. You can remove the file with `rm  ~/.zprofile` if it contains only the Homebrew shell configuration.

Though the `~/.zprofile` file is recommended, someone may have installed Homebrew without the `~/.zprofile` file to set the shell configuration. If Homebrew is working but the `~/.zprofile` file does not contain the `brew shellenv` command, check the other startup files that configure Zsh (listed below in the order they are sourced).
- `~/.zshenv` - sourced every time a shell is launched
- `~/.zprofile` - sourced before `~/.zshrc`, read only on login and intended for a user (not read by scripts)
- `~/.zshrc` - the most common location for zsh configuration settings (for a user, not read by scripts)
- `~/.zlogin` - sourced after `~/.zshrc` and intended for remote login to a shell

In all likelihood, Homebrew shell configuration is set in `~/.zprofile` or  `~/.zshrc`. There's also a possibility that shell configuration is set by [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/), an advanced framework for managing a Zsh configuration. Just remove the line that contains `brew shellenv`.

If you don't remove the Homebrew shell configuration and you've removed Homebrew, you'll see a warning message every time you start a terminal session.

### Remove residual files

Remove all the remaining Homebrew files by removing the `/opt/homebrew/` directory. You must use the `sudo` command to get superuser privileges to remove the directory.

```bash
$ sudo rm -rf /opt/homebrew/
```

Check that the directory is gone, as well as the Homebrew log and cache folders in your user `Library` directory.

```bash
$ ls -ag /opt
total 0
drwxr-xr-x   2 wheel   64 Jul 17 19:32 .
drwxr-xr-x  20 wheel  640 Jan  1  2020 ..
$ ls ~/Library/Caches/Homebrew/
ls: /Users/daniel/Library/Caches/Homebrew/: No such file or directory
$ ls ~/Library/Logs/Homebrew/
ls: /Users/daniel/Library/Logs/Homebrew/: No such file or directory
```

You've completely removed Homebrew.

You can follow instructions to [Uninstall Xcode Command Line Tools](https://mac.install.guide/commandlinetools/6.html) if you want to further reduce dependencies.

### Done!

That's it! You've uninstalled Homebrew.

For a guide that shows how to reinstall Homebrew, see [Install Homebrew](/homebrew/index.html). After installing Homebrew, you can [Install a Homebrew package](/homebrew/6.html).
