## Brew uninstall

Here's how to remove or delete a Homebrew package on a Mac using `brew uninstall`.

If you want to remove Homebrew entirely, see [Uninstall Homebrew](/homebrew/5.html).

### Steps

Here are the steps to install a package with Homebrew on a Mac.
- `brew list <package>` to see an installed package
- `brew uninstall <package>` to remove a package
- `brew list <package>` to verify removal
- `brew autoremove` to remove unused dependencies

### Check with `brew list`

Use `brew list  <package>` to check that a package has been installed. You'll see all the installed files. Here we see the files for the `tree` package, a useful Unix command that displays directories and files as a diagram.

```bash
$ brew list tree
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/tree/1.8.0/bin/tree
/opt/homebrew/Cellar/tree/1.8.0/share/man/man1/tree.1
```

You can also see a list of dependencies for the package, if there are any.

```bash
$ brew deps <package>
```

When you uninstall a package, you'll want to remove any dependencies that are not shared with other packages.

### Brew uninstall

You can uninstall a software package with `brew uninstall <package>`. For example, here's how to uninstall the `tree` package.

```bash
$ brew uninstall tree
Uninstalling /opt/homebrew/Cellar/tree/1.8.0... (8 files, 158.5KB)
```

The console will show the "keg" (the package folder) and a count of removed files.

### Brew remove

The command `brew remove <package>` is exactly the same as `brew uninstall <package>`. Use `brew remove` if it is easier to remember than `brew uninstall`.

### Brew rm

The command `brew rm <package>` is another alias for `brew remove <package>` or `brew uninstall <package>`.

For your information, `brew delete` is NOT a command. Honestly, I don't know why Homebrew has the commands "uninstall," "remove," "rm," but not "delete."

### Verify with `brew list`

After uninstalling a package, use `brew list  <package>` to verify that it has been removed. You'll see an error.

```bash
$ brew list tree
Error: No such keg: /opt/homebrew/Cellar/tree
```

Dependencies are not removed, which you can see with `brew deps <package>`.

```bash
$ brew deps <package>
```

### Brew autoremove

The command `brew autoremove` will remove all unused dependencies for the package you're removed, as well as any other unused dependencies.

```bash
$ brew autoremove
```

You don't have to run `brew autoremove`, but it will reduce the disk space required for Homebrew.

To learn about more commands for keeping Homebrew tidy, see the next section about [Homebrew Housekeeping](/homebrew/8.html).
